Sulfa antibiotics also referred to as sulfonamides,
are used to treat many types of bacterial infections.
Including urinary tract infections,
ear and eye infections,
pneumonia, bacterial meningitis,
and frequent or long-lasting bronchitis.
Sulfa antibiotics do not kill bacteria,
but they prevent bacteria from being able to reproduce.
Folate, a form of vitamin B9,
serves as a building block for the production of
RNA and DNA in the body.
Unlike humans who get folate through their diet,
bacteria can not ingest folate.
Sulfa antibiotics work
by binding and restricting a necessary enzyme
folate from being created.
Without the production of RNA and DNA
bacteria can not divide or reproduce,
so they die or are killed by the immune system.